1. What is an API?
An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of rules that allows two applications to communicate with each other. When you use an app on your phone or visit a website, the app communicates with a server to fetch or send data. This communication happens via APIs.

Think of APIs as the middleman between your app and the server that holds the data or functionality you're interested in.

2. How does an API work?
Here's the typical process:

Request: The client (such as your app or browser) sends a request to the server (API). This request includes the endpoint (URL) and necessary data.
Processing: The server processes the request, interacts with its database, and prepares the necessary response.
Response: The server sends the requested data or a response message back to the client.


3. API Structure
An API generally has the following elements:

Endpoint (URL): The URL where the API is accessible. Example: https://api.example.com/users
Method (HTTP verbs): APIs use different methods to define what action is being taken. Common HTTP methods:
GET: Retrieve data (e.g., getting a list of users).
POST: Send data to the server (e.g., adding a new user).
PUT: Update existing data.
DELETE: Delete data.

4. Headers and Authentication
APIs often require you to send additional information along with your request, such as authentication tokens or headers that specify how the data should be handled. For example:

Headers: Contain metadata for the API request (like content type).
Authentication: Ensures secure access to the API. You may need to send a token like an API key in the header for permission.

5. Status Codes
When you send a request to an API, the response will contain a status code that indicates the result:

200 OK: Success!
201 Created: New resource successfully created (for POST requests).
400 Bad Request: The server couldn't understand the request due to invalid syntax.
401 Unauthorized: Authentication is required or failed.
404 Not Found: The requested resource could not be found.
500 Internal Server Error: The server encountered an error.


----------To run fastAPI 
python -m uvicorn main:app --reload             #main is filename and app is fastAPI instance

----------To add products
curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:8000/products/" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"name": "Laptop", "price": 999.99, "category": "Electronics"}'